SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
IDENTIFICATION 10pts.
1. It is a concrete model of how a system will appear or behave, and usually depict the user interface?
    Answer: Prototype
2. It is a non-functional user interface layout that uses actual GUI components and validates UI design?
    Answer: Mockup
3. It is main goal is to build a very robust prototype in a structured manner and constantly refine it?
    Answer: Evolutionary prototyping
4. It is the process of applying various techniques and principles for the purpose of defining a device, process or system in sufficient detail to permit its physical realization?
    Answer: Design
5. It refers to the iterative process through which requirements are translated into a “blueprint” for building software?
    Answer: Software Design
6. It establishes a basic structural framework that identifies the major components of a system and the communication among these components?
    Answer: Architectural Design
7. It leads to the accurate specification of requirements, and the construction of a valid and useable system from the users’ perspective via conventional software development models?
    Answer: Throwaway prototyping
8. It consists of a central data store and a set of independent components that access the data store?
    Answer: Repository
9. This Architectural Style’s system is organized as a set of services and associated servers and clients that access and use these services?
    Answer: Client-server
10. It exploits diverse connectivity between participants in a network and the cumulative bandwidth of the network participants?
    Answer: Peer-to-peer

MULTIPLE CHOICE 10pts.
1. Which of the following is NOT included in Generic Process Models?
    a. Waterfall model
    b. Evolutionary development
    c. Formal systems development
 /  d. Use-based development
    e. None of the above
2. Which of the following is NOT included in Specific Process Models?
    a. Incremental model
 /  b. Object-Based Development Model
    c. Spiral Development Model
    d. Package-Based Development Model
    e. None of the above
3. Which of the following is NOT included in Characteristics of Software?
 /  a. Software does “wear out”
    b. Software is abstract and intangible
    c. Software is developed or engineered; it is not manufactured in the classical sense
    d. Most software is custom-built, rather than being assembled from existing components
    e. None of the above
4. Which of the following is NOT included in Fundamental Process Activities of Software Process?
    a. Specification
    b. Development
    c. Validation
    d. Evolution
 /  e. None of the above
5. Which of the following is NOT an advantage of the Waterfall Model?
    a. Very clear from a managerial viewpoint - easy to model, plan, monitor, and understand
    b. Many existing tools support this model
    c. Development is relatively slow and deliberate and thus, results in solid, well-constructed systems
 /  d. Last explicit process model
    e. None of the above
6. Which of the following is NOT an description of Waterfall model?
    a. Linear sequential model
    b. Describe a set of clear stages in the development process
    c. Based on engineering practice
    d. Still used for large systems engineering projects
 /  e. None of the above
7. Which of the following is NOT a disadvantage of Evolutionary Development?
    a. Cost, time, and resource estimation is difficult
    b. Process is not visible
    c. Progress is difficult to measure
 /  d. Less effective than waterfall model
    e. None of the above
8. Which of the following is NOT a description of Incremental model?
    a. Suggested by Mills 1980
    b. In between waterfall and evolutionary
 /  c. Increase rework in the development process
    d. Give customers opportunity to delay decisions
    e. None of the above
9. Which of the following is NOT an advantage of Spiral Development Model?
 /  a. Delayed error elimination
    b. Puts quality objectives up front
    c. Integrates development and maintenance
    d. Provides a framework for simultaneous hardware/software development
    e. None of the above
10. Which of the following is NOT included in best practices for Rational Unified Process?
    a. Develop software iteratively
    b. Manage requirements
    c. Component based architecture
    d. Visually model software
 /  e. None of the above

TRUE OR FALSE 10pts.
1. User requirements are typically stated in natural language.
    Answer: TRUE
2. Software is abstracted and intangible.
    Answer: TRUE
3. Based on the transformation of a mathematical specification through different representations to an executable program.
    Answer: TRUE
4. Transformations are ‘Cleanroom’ so it is straightforward to show that the program conforms to its specification.
    Answer: FALSE
5. Based on the idea of manufacturing semi-conductors in a “cleanroom environment”.
    Answer: TRUE
6. Communication focuses on unit tests (written before the code is made) and running periodic integration tests; functional tests are conducted based on the “user stories”; programmers and customers get concrete feedback.
    Answer: FALSE
7. Feedback favors simple designs, common metaphors, collaboration of users and programmers, frequent verbal communication, and feedback.
    Answer: FALSE
8. Courage code for today and not tomorrow; refactoring; persistence; knowing when to throw code away.
    Answer: TRUE
9. Black Box shows data implementation but hides process implementation; describes how "state" information is transformed.
    Answer: FALSE
10. Clear Box hides data implementation and process implementation. It describes how a system responds to stimuli, usually in a formal specification language.
    Answer: FALSE

NUMERICAL METHODS
MULTIPLE CHOICE 10pts.
1. It is often a straightforward proposition to determine the performance of a system as a function of its parameters.
    a. Large versus systems
    b. Nonlinear versus linear
 /  c. Design
    d. Sensitivity analysis
    e. None of the above
2. This is the discrepancy between an exact value and some approximation to it.
    a. Round-off errors
    b. Total numerical error
    c. Truncation error
 /  d. Approximation error
    e. None of the above
3. This is the summation of the truncation and round-off errors
    a. Round-off errors
 /  b. Total numerical error
    c. Truncation error
    d. Approximation error
    e. None of the above
4. _________ refers to how closely a computed or measured value agrees with the true value.
    a. Precision
    b. True value
 /  c. Accuracy
    d. Round-off errors
    e. None of the above
5. It is a special type of software that allows the user to enter and perform calculations on rows and columns of data.
 /  a. Excel
    b. Matlab
    c. Mathcad
    d. Gitlab
    e. None of the above
6. If the true value of a measurement is 10.9 cm and the approximate value is 10.7 cm, what is the true error?
 /  a. 0.2 cm
    b. 1.8 cm
    c. 0.2 %
    d. 1.8 %
    e. None of the above
7. If the true value of a measurement is 10.9 cm and the approximate value is 10.7 cm, what is the true relative error:
    a. 0.2 cm
    b. 1.8 cm
    c. 0.2 %
 /  d. 1.8 %
    e. None of the above
8. Solving the function f(x)=4x3-15x2+17x+6 using the Newton-Raphson method with a starting value of x = 0, the first iteration yields a value of x equal to:
    a. 0.3529
    b. - 0.3529
 /  c. 6
    d. 17
    e. None of the above
9. Using Bairstow’s method to solve the roots of the equation f(x) = x^4 - x - 10 with starting values r = 0.1 and s = 0.1, the first iteration yields:
    a. r = 1.251, s = 0.113
    b. r = - 3.145, s = 4.678
    c. r = 1.315, s = 5.278
 /  d. r = - 7.364, s = 13.579
    e. None of the above
10. To solve the roots of the equation f(x)=4x^5-7x^2+8x-2 using simple fixed point iteration and initial value of x = 0.5 , which of the following formulations is converging?
    a. x=4x^5-7x^2+9x-2
    b. x=((7x^2-8x+2)/4)^(1/5)
 /  c. x=(7x^2-8x+2)/x^4
    d. x=((4x^5-7x^2-2)/(-8)
    e. None of the above

IDENTIFICATION 10pts.
1. These are techniques by which mathematical problems are formulated so that they can be solved with arithmetic operations.
    Answer: Numerical methods
2. It refers to how closely a computed or measured value agrees with the true value.
    Answer: Accuracy
3. It is a type of incremental search method in which the interval is always divided in half.
    Answer: Bolzano’s method
4. This is the discrepancy introduced by the fact that numerical methods may employ approximations to represent exact mathematical operations and quantities.
    Answer: Transaction error
5. A kind of error that is not directly connected with numerical methods.
    Answer: Formulation error
6. When computer programs are divided into small subprograms which can be developed and tested separately then we are doing an approach called.
    Answer: Modular programming
7. This software is produced by Microsoft, Inc. that allows the user to enter and perform calculations on rows and columns of data.
    Answer: Excel
8. It refers to how closely individuals computed or measured agree with each other.
    Answer: Precision
9. It refers to the systematic deviation from the truth.
    Answer: Inaccuracy
10. It refers to the magnitude of the scatter of the approximate values.
    Answer: Imprecision

TRUE OR FALSE 10pts.
1. If in some instances that we will have with us the availability of an analytical solution then we will have the capability to compute the error approximately.
    Answer: False
2. A function typically changes sign in the vicinity of a root.
    Answer: True
3. An exception to the general case is that when the function is tangential to the x axis and the end points are of opposite signs, there are an even number of axis intersections for the interval.
    Answer: True
4. Graphical techniques are of limited practical value because they are not precise but they can be utilized to obtain rough estimates of roots.
    Answer: True
5. Given an upper bound and a lower bound, when a function changes sign in an interval, then there will generally be an even number of roots.
    Answer: False
6. In the bisection algorithm, to determine the subinterval in the next iteration, the following conditional statement is legitimate: If f(xuf(xr) is negative, the root lies in the lower subinterval.
    Answer: False
7. The secant method use the derivative instead of a difference to estimate the slope.
    Answer: False
8. Muller’s method uses the idea of projecting a line through two points on the x-axis to estimate the root.
    Answer: False
9. Bairstow’s method is generally based on the mathematical process of dividing a polynomial by a quadratic factor.
    Answer: True
10. The bisection method, which is alternatively called binary chopping, interval halving, or Bolzano’s method, is one type of incremental search method in which the interval is always divided in half.
    Answer: True
